[AUDIO LOGO]
>> What role did the Knights
Templar play in the rise of new
democracies?
I'm Timothy Hogan, grandmaster
of the Knights Templar.
>> And I'm Scott Wolter,
forensic geologist
and a Knights Templar.
And this is Mysteries
of the Knights Templar.
[THEME MUSIC]
The Templars went
on to help establish
democratic governments and
revolutions around the world,
including in the United
States of America.
But it began in Europe.
>> The Templars, one of their
primary goals from the very
beginning was to wrestle
power out of the hands
of the monarchies and the
Church that were controlling
everything at the time.
By setting up the first
banking systems of Europe,
this allowed them
to start to control
some of the commerce,
which allowed them
to wrestle some
of this power away
from the Church
and the monarchy.
Even though this got them
in trouble in the long run.
But after their
suppression, they
concerned themselves
with a number
of revolutionary activities,
including the Peasants' Revolt
in England.
Prior to that, they
had been involved
in the creation
of the Magna Carta
to try to give
the people rights.
And it was-- always been
fundamental doctrine
because they recognized
that the human soul was
connected to the Creator.
They recognized that everybody
was born with certain rights
and should have the
freedom to express them.
Freedom of speech, freedom of
assembly, freedom of religion.
And this was
important to Templars
because they came from
all different backgrounds.
Ultimately, this
had to culminate
into what was to become the
American Revolutionary War.
>> Yeah.
Things came to a head in 1776.
But before you can go to war,
you have to be prepared for it.
You have to have weaponry.
You have to have men,
too, to fight the war.
But most importantly,
you need money.
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
Now the Templars had
been keeping treasure
that they had kept
over the years,
slowly bringing it
over to the New World.
Putting this treasure
in different vaults
to be used for the creation of
a new Jerusalem, a new Atlantis,
a new Templar state, eventually.
This was part of
the New Covenant.
So by 1770, things
were really ramping up.
>> It was time to evaluate the
treasure and figure out what
needed to be used.
Isn't this right?
>> Well that's right.
And we read that one
entry where Ben Franklin
said those inspiring words to
motivate the 46 young men who
were all Freemasons, the
six slaves, to go up and get
those treasures.
Well, they did that, and
they brought them back.
And we actually have
a treasure list.
And if you don't mind, let's
see what this treasure is.
>> I think it's
time to read this.
>> "July 14."
You might remember the previous
entry I read was May 6.
So this is a couple
of months later.
>> In 1770.
>> 1770.
"It has taken the
greater part of the day
to transfer all the cargo up
the blank River to blank Island.
I'm not going to give
away specific information.
I know you can appreciate that.
I was enlisted to
inventory the cargo,
and it was placed
in the vault, and I
was surprised at the amount
of treasure we had recovered.
In total, there are more
than 40 chests of coin.
25 gold crucifixes
of varying sizes.
12 menorah of varying sizes.
Numerous parchments
and paintings
kept in tubes of
crushed lime and clay.
Only a few of them have
been opened to the weather,
and all seem in good repair.
There are also six arks of gold
and silver of varying sizes.
Three heavily decorated with
filigree and winged creatures.
Four stone boxes that
contain remnants of bone."
Ossuaries, perhaps?
"A stone box of
broken stone tablets.
An emerald tablet."
That rings a bell, doesn't it?
>> Yeah, right back to
the alchemical tradition.
>> Exactly.
"Several bloodied swords
and lances, two of which
are broken.
One stone box contains flasks
of mysterious substances.
But I am reluctant to ask
what magical solutions
they contain."
Alchemy?
"Several casks of jewels and
numerous other gold and silver
artifacts fill the empty space."
Let me just finish
this last part.
"It was late in the evening
before we closed the door
to the vault, which was
then sealed with mortar made
of crushed lime and shells.
The entrance was then
covered with soil
and made invisible to those
who know not where it lay.
A group of 10 and 14 masons--"
I might point out those numbers
also appear on the Kensington
Runestone inscription,
and they appear
within our rituals,
"--encircled the tomb--"
>> Thus implying that,
yeah, there are remains.
>> There are remains
there, exactly.
"--the tomb, and we blessed the
vault and asked Heavenly Father
to bless and protect this place
against time and the ravages
and greed of war."
Now, there's something
else very interesting.
They invoke the Holy Father
when it's associated with death.
Every other entry, when
they mention deity,
they talk about the goddess.
This is the only time the
Holy Father is mentioned.
>> Yeah.
And the stage is
set at this point.
They have the treasure.
They know the
revolution is coming.
Ben Franklin was instrumental
in some of this planning
and direction related to it.
In fact, my great grandfather
several generations back,
General Joseph
Warren, got involved.
He was grandmaster at the
time, the first grandmaster
of the forming in
the United States.
And he was also a martyr of
the American Revolutionary War.
But he initiated people
like Paul Revere.
And he helped to organize
what was a little event known
as the Boston Tea Party that
Saint Andrew's lodge was
involved in pulling off
on that fateful evening.
Which led to what was to
become the Revolutionary War.
Ultimately, it led to the
fighting to break out.
My great grandfather died at
the Battle of Bunker Hill.
But it was at this point that
other Masons were stepping up
to take the revolution
to the next level.
People like George
Washington, people
like Lafayette,
Marquis de Lafayette.
>> That's right.
>> All of these people
were Freemasons.
They were Templars.
And they were committed to
establishing this new republic.
We have to remember at
this transition period,
Freemasonry really had
become this new expression
of Templarism.
And it was a continuation
of the Templar tradition.
So while it was still veiled
somewhat as being masonry,
ultimately this
was Templarism that
was coming back to the fore.
>> Exactly.
And that would also explain
why they wanted Bonnie Prince
Charlie to be the king
or the grandmaster
until we had our
government figured out.
That makes perfect sense.
It all fits.
>> That's right.
And even people like Randolph,
the very first president
of the Continental
Congress, was a Mason.
>> Yeah.
>> They were all Masons.
And it was because they
were trying to establish
this new free Templar state.
Now ultimately, we know that
the revolution was successful.
Out of this revolution
also included by 1775
the establishment
of the Navy, what
was going to become the
Navy of the United States.
John Paul Jones, who
founded the US Navy,
actually he was
also a Freemason.
He was known for being
a bit of a pirate and--
>> Bit of a free
spirit, as it were.
>> And bringing in pirates--
>> Yeah.
>> --who had been part of
this Templar free state nation
on the seas to help out in
also forming the United States
of America.
>> Well, think about it.
If you're going to
form a navy, which
is a military force, who better
than a maritime culture that
was a military order
than the Templars
or the Templar tradition that
continued on that John Paul
Jones was part of?
Sure makes sense to me.
>> That's right, yeah.
And then other people
like Decatur and others
who were an early
part of the Navy,
they were, again, they
were all Freemasons.
There was a huge
influence from Scotland.
Help from Scotland.
>> Yeah.
>> And it proved
to be successful.
Now shortly after
this revolution,
other revolutions
began around the world.
>> Like France, right?
>> Particularly
France, that's right.
And in France, it
should be pointed out
that the people who formed
the Encyclopedia of France
during the revolution,
they were all Freemasons.
The Enlightenment philosophers,
including people like John
Locke, were all Freemasons.
So this was all part of
this Templar movement.
In fact, it's even said that
when the king was finally
beheaded during the
French Revolution,
someone jumped up on the stage,
took the blood from the king's
head, flung it into
the audience and said,
"Jacques de Molay,
thou art avenged."
So this was really
the culmination
of after the Templars had been
suppressed, them coming back
and to reestablish themselves.
This Templar free
state experiment
with the base of operations
in the new Atlantis,
the United States of America.
>> So these ideals and
these principles of freedom
and individual rights, I don't
think we can overstate it
enough, this is
what Templarism is.
But they weren't the
ones that created it.
This goes back to
Atlantis and beyond.
>> Yeah this was
the old tradition.
It was just reestablishing it.
Now, of course, there was
still pushback at this time.
>> Oh, of course.
>> From the Roman
Church, from monarchies.
They recognized who
was behind this.
They started to create their own
propaganda against Freemasonry.
In fact, they even said that
this was the Templars coming
back trying to destroy
the system that they
were in charge of.
>> Well, they were
right about that.
>> They were right.
And it wasn't just Freemasons.
There were other groups.
Went under the name
of Rosicrucian.
Louis Claude de Saint-Martin
was another Templar initiate
from around this time
period who established
a branch of Templarism
called Martinism
that had a huge influence
on the French Revolution.
Ultimately, though,
particularly in France,
there was a lot
of back and forth
on what was happening in
this, which ultimately
led to the rise of Napoleon.
We can't do this without
talking about Napoleon.
>> Right.
>> And also his relationship
with Thomas Jefferson.
>> Well, but let's talk
about his lineage, OK?
Who were his parents
and grandparents?
Where does that fall
into this story?
>> So according to
Templar documentation,
as you pointed out in
a previous episode,
Bonnie Prince Charlie was
a Templar grandmaster.
In fact, he had been
offered the opportunity
to be king of the United States.
He ultimately ended
up turning it down.
But his grandson-- illegitimate,
but still his grandson.
>> Bonnie Prince
Charlie's grandson.
>> Bonnie Prince Charlie's
grandson was, in fact,
Napoleon Bonaparte.
And this was the
reason why he always
claimed to be of good blood,
which is, in fact, what
Bonaparte means.
Of good--
>> Through the Stuart line.
>> Through the
Stuart line, yeah.
So if this is the case,
which we know it to be,
Napoleon was, in fact--
>> Stuart royalty from Scotland.
>> Does that mean he
would automatically be
the grandmaster of the
Knights Templar as well?
>> Well, he certainly fought
his way into that position.
When he came to power, one
of the first things he did
was he also married Josephine,
who was a Merovingian princess.
And we have to remember
that the Merovingians, which
were the royal line of France,
they trace their history back.
And it has been suggested that
part of their bloodline lineage
was part of this bloodline
tied to Mary Magdalene
and to Jesus--
>> And John the
Baptist, of course.
>> And John the Baptist.
And even before that,
the Merovingians
had a legend of having come
to the shores of France
from the sea.
And this seemed to be
pointing to the Atlantean--
>> I was going to say, this
is the Atlantean story that we
talked about earlier.
>> Yeah.
In fact, even the Merovingian
symbol is the fleur-de-lis.
>> Yes.
>> Which is a three-pronged
flower which really gets its
shape from the trident, which
was the symbol of Poseidon,
the God of Atlantis,
according to Plato.
>> Well what's also interesting
about the fleur-de-lis is
it's also symbolically
representing the bee, right?
And the bee is very
important in Templarism.
In fact, the Cistercians'
symbol is the beehive,
and that was picked by
Bernard de Clairvaux.
And it was supposed to
symbolically represent
the bees that are working
together in honor of the queen
bee, right.
The Cistercian monks
were all working
within the monastery
for the goddess
that they venerated, right?
So it's a beautiful analogy.
But as it turns out, it's
much older than we thought.
>> That's right.
In fact, even the Templar Grand
Commander in Constantinople
that Hughes de Payens
and Godfrey de Saint-Omer
had been initiated in the
foundation of the order,
was built like a giant beehive.
So this was an old
concept going way back
that was being reinstituted
by the time of Napoleon.
Now what most people don't
realize about Napoleon
is after this he
declared himself
the head of all Masonic
lodges, in France,
he declared himself as
an honorary grandmaster.
He was largely
recognized as such.
And then Napoleon
began his campaign.
The first thing he did was he
went and he raided the Vatican.
>> Yes, the Vatican.
>> Napoleon had already
raided the Vatican archives.
He brought them
all back to France.
They were brought
to Saint-Sulpice.
>> OK.
>> In Paris.
And specifically, he
set up certain people.
He put them in charge to
look for Templar documents
above everything.
So this is part of what
he was looking for.
And the reason why he
was looking for it is he
knew that the order had
preserved information
about an advanced
civilization previously,
the pre-Diluvian
civilization of Atlantis.
And that this information
had been stowed away.
And when the Templar
order was suppressed,
a large amount of it was
captured by the Vatican.
>> Ah.
So he was just taking back
what was already ours, right?
>> He was taking back
what was already ours.
And then from there, he knew
he needed to go to Malta.
The Knights of Malta
was the new face
for the Knights'
Hospitaller, which
had been one of the enemies
of the Templars back
during the Crusades.
Napoleon knew he could get
the remaining documents
that he needed from Malta if he
was to go to that headquarters.
>> So going through these
documents that he took from
the Vatican--
and by the way, I think you said
he recopied them and then gave
them back, right?
>> Correct, yeah.
>> I think that's fair to say.
>> Yeah.
>> This must have led him-- what
he learned in those documents--
to Egypt.
And isn't he the one that
discovered the Rosetta Stone?
I mean, one of the most
important artifacts
ever discovered.
>> Yeah.
From there, I mean,
he did go to Egypt.
He brought his savants with
him to catalog everything
they could possibly
find in Egypt.
And by 1799, Napoleon
himself was initiated
in the Great Pyramid--
>> Really?
>> During a special Templar
initiation ceremony that had
been being practiced
since ancient times.
In fact, it's still
practiced to this day
within the Great Pyramid itself.
After he arose from
this experience,
it's recorded people asked
him, "Well, what happened?
What happened when
you were in there?"
And his response was,
"You wouldn't believe me
even if I told you."
That was the end of it.
But he brought all of that
knowledge back to France,
to reestablish France as
this new Democratic Republic
with him as emperor.
Now around this same time in
the United States of America,
the New Republic
was getting going.
Thomas Jefferson had
become president.
Thomas Jefferson was also an
initiate of this tradition.
>> Thomas Jefferson, was he
a Mason, or was he a Templar?
Was he both?
>> He was both.
And not only that,
but there were
certain Rosicrucian
ciphers that were
found in his private writings.
>> So what's this famous
phrase that's in his monument
in Washington, DC?
>> Yeah.
He says, "I have sworn on the
altar of God eternal hostility
against every form of tyranny
over the mind of man."
I mean, first of all, we
need to ask what altar of God
is he swearing on?
The only organizations
that have altars of God
that people swear at are Templar
based organizations, first
of all, which is the first
clue that he's a Templar.
>> Yep.
>> But secondly, that
mission that he is stating is
the mission of the Templars.
It always has been.
So he was intimately
connected to all this.
And therefore, we
should not be surprised
that it was Jefferson who in
turn purchased the Louisiana
Purchase from Napoleon.
>> From Napoleon.
He negotiated a
pretty good deal.
Wasn't the purchase price
somewhere around $2.5 million?
>> Yeah, something like that.
Napoleon had his rise to
power and was falling.
Some people say that
there was concern
Napoleon was going to invade
the United States eventually.
There's really no
evidence of that.
But definitely that property
was purchased by Jefferson.
And at least according to
the temple of tradition,
he purchased it to secure
certain vaults that
contained these holy treasures.
>> Yes.
The first thing he
did was he sent out
two explorers, one who was a
Mason at the time, Meriwether
Lewis.
Clark was not a
Mason at the time.
He would later become one.
But here's the interesting
thing that ties Lewis and Clark
to these secret vaults
that you mentioned
that obviously
Napoleon knew about as
well as our Founding Fathers.
And I would argue--
although we're not going
to find this anywhere
and it's not going to
be anywhere because they
don't want us to know this.
But I believe that the primary
mission of Meriwether Lewis
was not just to check
out the land, make it
to the West Coast, but also
to secure the location--
>> Of one of the vaults?
>> --Of one of the vaults
that were not disturbed.
Because on the way back--
and I think it was
in July of 1806--
he split off from Clark
and part of the party
and went with nine brothers.
They were all
Freemasons, and he was
the 10th, 10 being the number
of perfection in Freemasonry.
And they diverted up the
Little Big Fork River.
And they crossed the
Continental Divide,
which is apparently where
one of the secret vaults is.
And you and I are both
aware of this location.
And this is right in that area.
But for those four days when
he was crossing the Continental
Divide, those pages of his
personal journal are missing.
But later on six weeks
later, he rejoined with Clark
and then they finished the trip.
And I think at the end of the
day, if you look at the tenants
in our Constitution, like
freedom of religion, right--
and this is one of the
fundamental tenets.
Freedom of speech, right.
And freedom from the tyranny
of the monarchs of Europe.
I mean, you don't have to
think hard at all to see
where all of this came from.
This is an outgrowth of the
persecution and destruction
of the Templar order.
Well, the supposed
destruction of the order.
But yet, just like
that phoenix that
rises from the
ashes of de Molay,
it survived and now it thrived
in the founding of the United
States of America.
But the big question is now,
do people really understand
that in this country today?
And is this republic
going to hold together?
Is this great experiment
that our Masonic brothers,
our Templar brothers, going back
270 years, whatever it is now,
is it going to hold?
We'll see.
>> Time will tell.
>> Thank you for joining us
for this episode of Mysteries
of the Knights Templar.
[MUSIC PLAYING]